README.md, before:

Clipboard Manager
=================

A version of the Sublime Text plugin at <http://www.sublimetext.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=2260&start=0> that makes for TextMate-like clipboard history.

Originally written by AJ Palkovic ([ajpalkovic](https://github.com/ajpalkovic/SublimePlugins)), modified by Martin Aspeli ([optilude](https://gist.github.com/1132507)), and further (heavily) modified and packaged for `Package Control` by Colin T.A. Gray ([colinta](https://github.com/colinta/SublimeClipboardManager))

My (colinta) version of this plugin *does not use* `clipboard_history` as the prefix.  See the full command-list below.

Installation
------------

**Most importantly:** Clipboard Manager must be registered to receive the copy and cut commands, so be sure
to assign `clipboard_manager_copy` to `ctrl/super+c` and `clipboard_manager_cup` to `ctrl/super+x`. These
commands delegate to the sublime text built in commands, but also add the copied text to its internal history.

1. Using Package Control, install "Clipboard Manager"

Or:

1. Open the Sublime Text Packages folder
    - OS X: ~/Library/Application Support/Sublime Text 3/Packages/
    - Windows: %APPDATA%/Sublime Text 3/Packages/
    - Linux: ~/.Sublime Text 3/Packages/ or ~/.config/sublime-text-3/Packages

2. clone this repo
3. Install keymaps for the commands (see Example.sublime-keymap for my preferred keys)

Open `Preferences > Key Bindings` and copy the key bindings from `Example.sublime-keymap` that you want to use.  First you need to override the cut/copy/paste commands, so that the pasteboard entries can be stored in history:

``` json
    { "keys": ["super+x"], "command": "clipboard_manager_cut" },
    { "keys": ["super+c"], "command": "clipboard_manager_copy" },
    { "keys": ["super+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_paste", "args": { "indent": true } },
```

Next you'll want to bind `next_and_paste` and `previous_and_paste`, these move forward and backward through history and paste the next/previous entry:

``` json
    { "keys": ["super+alt+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_next_and_paste" },
    { "keys": ["super+shift+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_previous_and_paste" },
```

The "choose and paste" command is super useful, and it uses the fuzzy finder so you can search your history:

```
    { "keys": ["super+alt+ctrl+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste" },
```

More commands are outlined below.


Commands
--------

**The basics**

`clipboard_manager_cut`: Self Explanatory

`clipboard_manager_copy`: Self Explanatory

`clipboard_manager_paste`: Self Explanatory.

*Options*: indent (default: False): Determines whether to use the `paste` or `paste_and_indent` built-in command.

- - - - - -

**Navigating clipboard history**

`clipboard_manager_next_and_paste` (`super+alt+v`)

Goes to the next entry in the history and pastes it.
*Options*: indent (default: `False`)

`clipboard_manager_previous_and_paste` (`super+shift+v`)

Goes to the previous entry in the history and pastes it.
*Options*: indent (default: `False`)

`clipboard_manager_next` (`super+pageup` aka `super+fn+up`)

Goes to the next entry in the history, but doesn't paste.  (the content will appear as a status message)

`clipboard_manager_previous` (`super+pagedown` aka `super+fn+down`)

Goes to the previous entry in the history, but doesn't paste.  (the content will appear as a status message)

`clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste` (`super+ctrl+alt+v`)

Shows the clipboard history in a "quick panel" so you can pick an entry from the history.

`clipboard_manager_show` (`super+ctrl+shift+v, /`)

Shows the clipboard history in an "output panel", and points to the current clipboard item.  This was mostly useful for development, but you might find it beneficial as well.

- - - - - -

**Registers**

Registers do not add/remove from the clipboard history, they are a place to store text that won't be affected by clipboard history.

`clipboard_manager_copy_to_register` (there are a ton, e.g. `super+ctrl+shift+c, 1`, `super+ctrl+shift+c, a`)

Puts the selection into a `register`.  The example keymap includes a register binding for every number and letter.

`clipboard_manager_paste_from_register` (`super+ctrl+shift+v, 1`, `super+ctrl+shift+v, a`)

Pastes the contents of a `register`.  Again, there are lots of example key bindings.

`clipboard_manager_show_registers` (`super+ctrl+shift+v, ?`)

Shows the clipboard registers in an "output panel", similar to `clipboard_manager_show`.

- - - - - -

**Helpful Tips**

There are two ways to find out what you've got hanging out in your clipboard history, you should use both.  The `clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste` command is your goto.  It uses the fuzzy finder input panel, so you can quickly find and paste the entry you want.

The other useful trick is to use `clipboard_manager_show` to show an output panel at the bottom of the screen.  As you scroll through history using `clipboard_manager_next` and `clipboard_manager_previous`, it will update that panel, with an arrow pointing to the current entry.  Then you can `clipboard_manager_next_and_paste`, and it will get updated then, too.  Keeps you sane if you're doing something crazy.

If you've got a repetive task to do, with lots of copy/pastes, use registers. They do not get affected by usual copy/pasting, so you can rest assured that your work flow will not get affected.  The keyboard shortcuts are unfortunately quite verbose (`super+ctrl+shift+c, letter/digit`), but look at Example.sublime-keymap and you'll see that it is easy to assign a quicker shortcut for registers you like to use.  Registers do not have to be one letter, any string can be used as the key.

Commit message:

adds much better 'show current/next/previous' clipboard entry in panel support, update README

README.md, after:

Clipboard Manager
=================

A version of the Sublime Text plugin at <http://www.sublimetext.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=2260&start=0> that makes for TextMate-like clipboard history.

Originally written by AJ Palkovic ([ajpalkovic](https://github.com/ajpalkovic/SublimePlugins)), modified by Martin Aspeli ([optilude](https://gist.github.com/1132507)), and further (heavily) modified and packaged for `Package Control` by Colin T.A. Gray ([colinta](https://github.com/colinta/SublimeClipboardManager)).  I also want to give a shoutout to user [mg979](https://github.com/mg979) for sharing a bunch of awesome new features he added to this plugin!  We didn't collaborate on a pull request, but I did implement some of his ideas that I liked, namely the "show current clipboard" with syntax highlighting.

Installation
------------

**Most importantly:** Clipboard Manager must be registered to receive the copy and cut commands, so be sure
to assign `clipboard_manager_copy` to `ctrl/super+c` and `clipboard_manager_cut` to `ctrl/super+x`. These
commands delegate to the sublime text built in commands, but also add the copied text to its internal history.

1. Using Package Control, install "Clipboard Manager"
2. Install keymaps for the commands (see Example.sublime-keymap for my preferred keys)

Open `Preferences > Key Bindings` and copy the key bindings from `Example.sublime-keymap` that you want to use.  First you need to override the cut/copy/paste commands, so that the pasteboard entries can be stored in history:

``` json
    { "keys": ["super+x"], "command": "clipboard_manager_cut" },
    { "keys": ["super+c"], "command": "clipboard_manager_copy" },
    { "keys": ["super+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_paste", "args": { "indent": true } },
```

Next you'll want to bind `next_and_paste` and `previous_and_paste`, these move forward and backward through history and paste the next/previous entry:

``` json
    { "keys": ["super+alt+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_next_and_paste" },
    { "keys": ["super+shift+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_previous_and_paste" },
```

The "choose and paste" command is super useful, and it uses the fuzzy finder so you can search your history:

```json
    { "keys": ["super+alt+ctrl+v"], "command": "clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste" },
```

If you bind `clipboard_manager_next` and `clipboard_manager_previous`, these commands will show you the current clipboard selection in a panel at the bottom of the screen.  `clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste` also has this feature (thanks to @mg979 for this idea!)


Commands
--------

**The basics**

`clipboard_manager_cut`: Self Explanatory

`clipboard_manager_copy`: Self Explanatory

`clipboard_manager_paste`: Self Explanatory.

*Options*: indent (default: False): Determines whether to use the `paste` or `paste_and_indent` built-in command.

- - - - - -

**Navigating clipboard history**

`clipboard_manager_next_and_paste` (`super+alt+v`)

Goes to the next entry in the history and pastes it.
*Options*: indent (default: `False`)

`clipboard_manager_previous_and_paste` (`super+shift+v`)

Goes to the previous entry in the history and pastes it.
*Options*: indent (default: `False`)

`clipboard_manager_next` (`super+pageup` aka `super+fn+up`)

Goes to the next entry in the history, but doesn't paste.  The content will appear as a status message and in a panel.

`clipboard_manager_previous` (`super+pagedown` aka `super+fn+down`)

Goes to the previous entry in the history, but doesn't paste.  The content will appear as a status message and in a panel.

`clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste` (`super+ctrl+alt+v`)

Shows the clipboard history in an quick panel so you can pick an entry from the history, also shows the "current selected item" in an output panel.

`clipboard_manager_show` (`super+ctrl+shift+v, /`)

Shows the clipboard history in an output panel, and points to the current clipboard item.  This was mostly useful for development, but you might find it beneficial as well.

- - - - - -

**Registers**

Registers do not add/remove from the clipboard history, they are a place to store text that won't be affected by clipboard history.

`clipboard_manager_copy_to_register` (there are a ton, e.g. `super+ctrl+shift+c, 1`, `super+ctrl+shift+c, a`)

Puts the selection into a `register`.  The example keymap includes a register binding for every number and letter.

`clipboard_manager_paste_from_register` (`super+ctrl+shift+v, 1`, `super+ctrl+shift+v, a`)

Pastes the contents of a `register`.  Again, there are lots of example key bindings.

`clipboard_manager_show_registers` (`super+ctrl+shift+v, ?`)

Shows the clipboard registers in an output panel, similar to `clipboard_manager_show`.

- - - - - -

**Helpful Tips**

There are two ways to find out what you've got hanging out in your clipboard history, you should use both.  The `clipboard_manager_choose_and_paste` command is your goto.  It uses the fuzzy finder input panel, so you can quickly find and paste the entry you want.

The other useful trick is to use `clipboard_manager_next`/`clipboard_manager_previous` to show an output panel at the bottom of the screen.  As you scroll through history it will update that panel, with syntax highlighting, too!  Then you can `clipboard_manager_next_and_paste`, and if you keep the panel open it will update as you keep pasting.

If you've got a repetive task to do, with lots of copy/pastes, use registers. They do not get affected by usual copy/pasting, so you can rest assured that your work flow will not get affected.  The keyboard shortcuts are unfortunately quite verbose (`super+ctrl+shift+c, letter/digit`), but look at Example.sublime-keymap and you'll see that it is easy to assign a quicker shortcut for registers you like to use.  Registers do not have to be one letter, any string can be used as the key.
